# Section 1.1

## Description

Welcome to your first bootcamp assignment. This [markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) document will serve as your guide through this first section of assignments and all future assignments.

## 1. Environment Configuration

The primary focus of today is to get our machine setup for coding and ready to work. Some of these things aren't strictly necesary in order to code, but we spend a lot of time with these tools so its good to have good ones.

### iTerm

iTerm is a replacement for the built in terminal editor (where you enter in commands) for macos.

[Download Here](https://iterm2.com/downloads.html)

### xcode select

XCode is the software development platform provided by Apple. We won't be using all of XCode, just their command line tools.

To install, type the following in your terminal: `xcode-select --install`

### Brew

`brew` is a package manager for MacOs that will allow us to install the command line applications we need.

To install, follow the instructions [here](https://brew.sh).

After installation, run `brew update` to ensure brew is up to date.

### ZSH & Oh My Zsh

zsh is a replacement for the default shell (command line environment) on MacOs that offers many nice quality of life features.

To install zsh, type the following in your terminal: `brew install zsh`

To install oh my zsh, read the instructions [here](https://ohmyz.sh/#install).

### Node & NPM

Node.js is an engine used to run javascript outside of the web browser. Javascript used with node is the most popular and widespread programming language today.

NPM is the package manager (think of it as a software store) used by node.

To install both: `brew install npm`

### Python

MacOS already has python installed, but its out of date. We need to reinstall with brew.

`brew install python`

### VS Code

VS Code is a free code editor provided by Microsoft and its truly excellent.

Download and install [here](https://code.visualstudio.com).

## 2. Forking this Repo

We will now 'fork' this repo (repository), which means we will create a copy of the code and folder structures contained here on our own github account that will be maintained independently.

## 3. Git

Version control through git will form the basis of this course. Through knowledge and mastery of git, you will have the ability to m`anage your code through many different versions and sources.

Click the dropdown next to fork up above and create a new fork.

Now you should have a copy of this repository in your own github account.

Continue with this markdown in your own repository

### Clone

The first git command we will learn is `git clone` which allows us to pull down code from github or other sources.

First, copy the url shown when you click the `<> Code` drop down in your browser.

Clone this repository by typing the following in your terminal:

1. `cd ~` This will make sure your terminal is in your home directory.
2. `git clone <URL YOU COPIED HERE>` Clones the repo indicated by the URL

### Checkout

The next thing we are going to learn is how to create our own 'branch' of the code.

A 'branch' is a copy of the code where you can work on features, changes, etc. without destroying the 'main' or 'master' copy of the code.

To create a new branch, type `git checkout -b <YOUR_BRANCH_NAME>`. After a branch has been created, return to it with `git checkout <YOUR_BRANCH_NAME>`.

Let's create your first branch:

`git checkout -b <YOUR_NAME>.1.1`, so for me: `git checkout -b kip.1.1`

### Add

### Commit

### Push

## 4. Hello World

To round this assignment off, we'll create our first programs. They will all do the exact same thing, but written in three different programming languages, js, python and c.

To figure out how to write those applications, I'll refer you to google. The most critical skill any software developer can have is good google fu. Message me if you get stuck.

### Requirements

- [ ] Repository contains the following directories and files
    - [ ] `python/helloworld.py`
    - [ ] `node/helloworld.js`
    - [ ] `c/helloworld.c`
- [ ] `python3 helloworld.py` outputs 'Hello World!'
- [ ] `node helloworld.js` outputs 'Hello World!'
- [ ] `gcc helloworld.c && ./a.out` outputs 'Hello World!'

## 5. Pull Request